README.md, before:

# log.c
A simple logging library implemented in C99

![screenshot](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/3920290/23831970/a2415e96-0723-11e7-9886-f8f5d2de60fe.png)


## Usage
**[log.c](src/log.c?raw=1)** and **[log.h](src/log.h?raw=1)** should be dropped
into an existing project and compiled along with it. The library provides 6
function-like macros for logging:

```c
log_trace(const char *fmt, ...);
log_debug(const char *fmt, ...);
log_info(const char *fmt, ...);
log_warn(const char *fmt, ...);
log_error(const char *fmt, ...);
log_fatal(const char *fmt, ...);
```

Each function takes a printf format string followed by additional arguments:

```c
log_trace("Hello %s", "world")
```

Resulting in a line with the given format printed to stderr:

```
20:18:26 TRACE src/main.c:11: Hello world
```


#### log_set_quiet(bool enable)
Quiet-mode can be enabled by passing `true` to the `log_set_quiet()` function.
While this mode is enabled the library will not output anything to `stderr`, but
will continue to write to files and callbacks if any are set.


#### log_set_level(int level)
The current logging level can be set by using the `log_set_level()` function.
All logs below the given level will not be written to `stderr`. By default the
level is `LOG_TRACE`, such that nothing is ignored.


#### log_add_fp(FILE *fp, int level)
One or more file pointers where the log will be written can be provided to the
library by using the `log_add_fp()` function. The data written to the file
output is of the following format:

```
2047-03-11 20:18:26 TRACE src/main.c:11: Hello world
```

Any messages below the given `level` are ignored. If the library failed to add a
file pointer a value less-than-zero is returned.


#### log_add_callback(log_LogFn fn, void *udata, int level)
One or more callback functions which are called with the log data can be
provided to the library by using the `log_add_callback()` function. A callback
function is passed a `log_Event` structure containing the `line` number,
`filename`, `fmt` string, `va` printf va\_list, `level` and the given `udata`.


#### log_set_lock(log_LockFn fn, void *udata)
If the log will be written to from multiple threads a lock function can be set.
The function is passed the boolean `true` if the lock should be acquired or
`false` if the lock should be released and the given `udata` value.


#### const char* log_level_string(int level)
Returns the name of the given log level as a string.


#### LOG_USE_COLOR
If the library is compiled with `-DLOG_USE_COLOR` ANSI color escape codes will
be used when printing.


## License
This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the MIT license. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

Commit message:

Added a rolling appender function for basic log file management.
Most applications that are concerned with this behavior should consider sending
messages to syslog and use traditional logrotate mechanisms to manage log
files. However, there is a niche of applications that could benefit from this
feature in a compact logging library.

README.md, after:

# log.c
A simple logging library implemented in C99

![screenshot](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/3920290/23831970/a2415e96-0723-11e7-9886-f8f5d2de60fe.png)


## Usage
**[log.c](src/log.c?raw=1)** and **[log.h](src/log.h?raw=1)** should be dropped
into an existing project and compiled along with it. The library provides 6
function-like macros for logging:

```c
log_trace(const char *fmt, ...);
log_debug(const char *fmt, ...);
log_info(const char *fmt, ...);
log_warn(const char *fmt, ...);
log_error(const char *fmt, ...);
log_fatal(const char *fmt, ...);
```

Each function takes a printf format string followed by additional arguments:

```c
log_trace("Hello %s", "world")
```

Resulting in a line with the given format printed to stderr:

```
20:18:26 TRACE src/main.c:11: Hello world
```


#### log_set_quiet(bool enable)
Quiet-mode can be enabled by passing `true` to the `log_set_quiet()` function.
While this mode is enabled the library will not output anything to `stderr`, but
will continue to write to files and callbacks if any are set.


#### log_set_level(int level)
The current logging level can be set by using the `log_set_level()` function.
All logs below the given level will not be written to `stderr`. By default the
level is `LOG_TRACE`, such that nothing is ignored.


#### log_add_fp(FILE *fp, int level)
One or more file pointers where the log will be written can be provided to the
library by using the `log_add_fp()` function. The data written to the file
output is of the following format:

```
2047-03-11 20:18:26 TRACE src/main.c:11: Hello world
```

Any messages below the given `level` are ignored. If the library failed to add a
file pointer a value less-than-zero is returned.


#### log_add_callback(log_LogFn fn, void *udata, int level)
One or more callback functions which are called with the log data can be
provided to the library by using the `log_add_callback()` function. A callback
function is passed a `log_Event` structure containing the `line` number,
`filename`, `fmt` string, `va` printf va\_list, `level` and the given `udata`.


#### log_add_rolling_appender(rolling_appender ra, int level)
One or more rolling log appenders. This is functionally equivalent to
`log_add_fp()` from a logging standpoint. The function also handles log _file_
management based on the values provided by the `rolling_appender` struct
argument.

After a log entry pushes the log size over the `ra.max_log_size` value, your
active log is automatically rolled.

Rolled logs appear in the same directory as the active log, and retain the same
name as the active log, except a numeric value from `1` to `ra.max_logs`
is appended to the end of the file name.


#### log_set_lock(log_LockFn fn, void *udata)
If the log will be written to from multiple threads a lock function can be set.
The function is passed the boolean `true` if the lock should be acquired or
`false` if the lock should be released and the given `udata` value.


#### const char* log_level_string(int level)
Returns the name of the given log level as a string.


#### LOG_USE_COLOR
If the library is compiled with `-DLOG_USE_COLOR` ANSI color escape codes will
be used when printing.


## License
This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the MIT license. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.
